Hello, and welcome
to week four of
our Visual Perception for
Autonomous Driving Course.
This week, we'll dive
into object detection,
a core requirement for
any self-driving car
perception stack.
Object detection is
a top level module
required to identify
the locations of vehicles,
pedestrians, signs, and lights,
so our car knows where
and how it can drive.
This week, we will
be going in depth to
define the 2D object
detection problem,
how to apply ConvNets
to tackle it,
and why the problem of 2D
object detection is difficult.
We will then explain
how object detection is
used as input for
the 2D object tracking problem,
and how to perform
the tracking task in
the context of self-driving cars.
This lesson will formulate
the object detection
problem in 2D.
You will also learn how to
evaluate 2D object
detectors using
standard performance
metrics established
by researchers in the field.
Let's get started.
The history of 2D object
detection begins in 2001 when
Paul Viola and
Michael Jones invented
a very efficient algorithm
for face detection.
This algorithm now
called the Viola,
Jones Object Detection Framework,
was the first object
detection framework
to provide reliable,
real-time 2D object detections
from a simple webcam.
The next big breakthrough
in object detection
happened four years later
when Navneet Dalal
and Bill Triggs formulated
the histogram of oriented
gradient feature descriptor.
Their algorithm applied to
the 2D pedestrian
detection problem,
outperformed all other
proposed methods at the time.
The Dalal, Triggs algorithm
remained on the top of
the charts until 2012
when Alex Krizhevsky,
Ilya Sutskever and
Geoffrey Hinton from
the Computer Science
Department here
at the University of Toronto,
shook the computer
vision world with
their convolutional neural
network dubbed AlexNet.
AlexNet won the ImageNet Large
Scale Visual Recognition
Challenge in
2012 with a wide margin
over the algorithm that
took second place.
In 2012, it was
the only deep learning-based
entry in the challenge.
But since then, all winning
entries in this
competition are based on
convolutional neural
networks with the entry
surpassing the human
recognition rate
of 95 percent recently.
This performance extended from
2D object recognition
to 2D object detection
with current day
detectors being almost
exclusively based on
convolutional neural networks.
Before we go through how to use
ConvNets for object detection
and self-driving cars,
let's formulate the general
2D object detection problem.
Given a 2D image's input,
we are required to estimate
the location defined by
a bounding box and the class
of all objects in the scene.
Usually, we choose classes
that are relevant
to our application.
For self-driving cars,
we usually are
most interested in
object classes that are dynamic,
that is ones that move
through the scene.
These include vehicles in
their subclasses,
pedestrians, and cyclists.
The problem of 2D object
detection is not trivial.
The extent of objects
we require to estimate
are not always fully
observed in the image space.
As an example,
background objects are
usually occluded by
foreground objects.
This requires any algorithm
we use to be able to
hallucinate the extent of
objects to properly detect them.
Furthermore, objects
that are near
the edge of the image
are usually truncated.
This phenomenon creates
huge variability
in the bounding box sizes,
where the size of
the estimated bounding box
depends on how truncated
the object is.
Another issue faced by
2D object detection algorithms
is that of scale.
Objects tend to appear very
small as they go further
away from our censor.
Our algorithm is
expected to determine
the class of these objects
at variable scales.
Finally, our algorithm
should also be
able to handle
illumination changes.
This is especially important in
the context of self-driving cars,
where images can be affected by
whole image
illumination variations
from bright sun to night driving,
and partial variations
due to reflections,
shadows, precipitation, and
other nuisance effects.
Now that we've intuitively
understood what
object detection is,
let us formalize
the problem mathematically.
Object detection can be defined
as a function estimation problem.
Given an input image x,
we want to find the function f of
x in Theta that produces
an output vector that
includes the coordinates of
the top-left of the box,
xmin and ymin, and
the coordinates of the lower
right corner of the box,
xmax and ymax, and a class
score Sclass1 to Sclassk.
Sclassi specifies how confident
our algorithm is that the object
belongs to the class i,
and i ranges from one to k,
where k is the number
of classes of interest.
Can you think of any way
to estimate this function?
Convolutional neural networks,
which we described last week are
an excellent tool for estimating
this kind of function.
For object detection,
the input data is
defined on a 2D grid,
and as such, we use ConvNets as
our chosen function estimators
to perform this task.
We will discuss how to perform
2D object detection with
ConvNets in the next lesson.
But first, we need
to figure out how to
measure the performance
of our algorithm.
Given the output of
a 2D object detector in red,
we want to be able to compare how
well it fits the true output,
usually labeled by humans.
We call the true output our
ground truth bounding box.
The first step of our evaluation
process is to compare
our detector
localization output to
the ground truth boxes
via the Intersection-Over-Union
metric,
or IOU for short.
IOU is defined as the area
of the intersection of
two polygons divided by
the area of their union.
However, calculating the
intersection-over-union does
not take into consideration
the class scores.
To account for class scores,
we define true positives.
True positives are output
bounding boxes that have an IOU
greater than
a predefined threshold
with any ground truth
bounding box.
In addition, the class
of those output boxes
should also match the class
of their corresponding
ground truth.
That means that
the 2D detector should give
the highest class score
to the correct class,
have a score that is greater
than a score threshold.
On the other hand,
false positives are
the output boxes that have
a score greater than
the score threshold,
but an IOU less than
the IOU threshold with all
ground truth bounding boxes.
This can be easily computed as
the total number of
detected objects
after the application of
the score threshold minus
the number of true positives.
The final base quantity
we would like to
estimate is the number
of false negatives.
False negatives are
the ground truth
bounding boxes that have
no detections associated
with them through IOU.
Once we have determined
the true positives,
false positives, and
false negatives;
we can determine
the precision and recall of
our 2D object detector
according to the following.
The precision is the number
of true positives
divided by the sum of
the true positives and
the false positives.
The recall on the other hand
is the number of
true positives divided by
the total number of
ground truth objects,
which is equal to the number
of true positives
added to the number
of false negatives.
Once we determine
the precision and recall,
we can vary the
object class score threshold
to get a precision recall curve,
and finally, we determine
the average precision as
the area under
the precision-recall curve.
The area under the curve can be
computed using
numerical integration,
but is usually approximated
using an average of
the precision values at
11 recall points ranging
from zero to one.
I know these are
quite a few concepts
to understand
the first time through.
But don't worry, as you'll
soon get a chance to work through
a step-by-step practice
notebook on how to code
all of these methods in
Python in the assessments.
Let's work through an example on
how to assess the performance of
a 2D object detection network
using the learned metrics.
We are interested in detecting
only cars in a road scene.
That means that we have
a single class of interest,
and therefore only one set
of scores to consider.
We are given ground truth
bounding boxes of cars
labeled by human beings
and shown in green.
We process our image
with a confinet to
get the detection output
bounding boxes, shown in red.
You can notice that
the network mistakenly
detects the front of
a large truck as a car.
Looking at the scores,
we see that our confinet gave
this miss detection quite a
high score of being a car.
Let's now evaluate
the performance of
our confinet using
average precision.
The first step is to take all of
our estimated bounding boxes and
sort them according to
object class score.
We then proceed to
compute the IOU between
each predicted box and
the corresponding
ground truth box.
If a box does not intersect
any ground-truth boxes,
it's IOU is set to zero.
First, we said a class score
threshold, let's say 0.9.
This threshold means that we
only trust our
network prediction,
if it returns a score that
is greater than nine,
and we eliminate
any bounding boxes
with a score less than 0.9.
Next, we set an IOU threshold,
we'll use 0.7 in
this case and proceed to
eliminate any
remaining predictions
with an IOU less than 0.7.
In this case, both the
remaining predictions
have an IOU of greater than 0.7,
and so we don't eliminate any.
We can now compute the number of
true positives as the number of
remaining bounding boxes after
the application of both the
score and the IOU thresholds,
which in this case is two.
The number of false positives
is zero in this case,
since all boxes remaining
after the application of
the score thresholds also
remain after the application
of the IOU threshold.
Finally, the number of
false negatives are
boxes in the ground truth
that have no detections
associated with them
after the application of
both the score and
the IOU thresholds.
In this case, the number
of false negatives is two.
The precision of
our neural network
is computed as the number of
true positives divided by
their sum with the number
of false positives.
In this case, we don't
have false positives.
So the precision is
2 over 2 equal to 1.
To compute the recall,
we divide the number
of true positives by
the number of ground truth
bounding boxes,
which is equal to the number of
false positives summed with
the number of false negatives.
The recall in
this case is 2 over 4.
The detector in this case is
a high precision low
recall detector.
This means that the detector
misses some objects in the scene,
but when it does
detect an object,
it makes very few mistakes in
category classification
and bounding box location.
Let's see how the performance of
our detector changes
when we decrease
the score threshold
from 0.9 to 0.7.
All bounding boxes have
a score greater than 0.7,
so we do not eliminate
any of them through
score thresholding.
However, when we examine
the IOU of the remaining boxes,
we can see that two of them
have an IOU less than 0.7.
By eliminating these two boxes,
we get three true positives.
To compute the number
of false positives,
we need to look at
how many detections
remained after the application
of the score threshold,
but before the application
of the IOU threshold.
In this case, the number
of false positives is two.
Finally, we take a look
at the number of
ground truth bounding
boxes that have
remained without
an associated detection
after the application of
both the IOU and
score thresholds to get
one as the number
of false negatives.
Notice that the precision
has dropped after
decreasing the score threshold
from one to 0.6,
while the recall has
increased from 0.5 to 0.75.
We can conclude
that the effect of
lowering the score threshold is
less accurate
detection results at
the expense of detecting
more objects in the scene.
If we continue
this process and estimate
the score threshold at
decrements of 0.01,
we arrive at the following table.
We then proceed to plot
the precision-recall curve,
using the precision values
on the y-axis
and the recall values
on the x-axis.
Note that we also add
the precision recall points of
one and zero as the
first in the plot,
and zero one as
the final point in the plot.
This allows us to approximate
the average precision
by calculating
the area under
the P-R curve using
11 recall points
between zero and one,
at 0.01 recall increments.
Computing this average
produces an AP of
0.75 for a car detector.
The value of the
average precision of
the detector can be thought
of as an average of
performance over
all score thresholds
allowing objective comparison of
the performance of
detectors without having to
consider the exact
score threshold
that generated those detections.
In this video, you
learned how to formulate
the 2D object detection
problem and how to
evaluate a 2D object
detectors performance
using the average precision
performance metric.
Next lesson, you will learn
how to use confinet as
2D object detectors for
self-driving cars. See you then.